1. What is a variable? Why might a programmer use a variable?

A variable is used to store any type of data.

2. If the value of first_name is "Abraham" and last_name is "Lincoln", explain the order in which Ruby will run the line full_name = first_name + last_name, and what the final result will be.

The full_name variable is first created as a variable and then the first_name variable is taken and is matched with last_name variable for data type. Then the two variables are concatenated with first_name coming first in line.

3.

string - store letters, words or paragraphs.
	a="antony"

integer - store whole numbers.
	a=18

float - store fractional numbers.
	a=21.5

nil - contains no value. Takes no space when printed
	a=nil

boolean - stores true or false values.
	a=true

4. What is an algorithm?

	An alggorithm is used to create a blueprint of the program. By generating the algorithm for a program it is easier for us to know what should be done in each step.

5. What are two common categories of algorithm in computer science?

Greedy algorithm and dynamic programming algorithm.

6. What is a method? Why might a programmer choose to use a method?

A method is used to create a simple set of programming that achieves a certain task. A method accepts parameter, therefore can accept values when calling a method

7. Define the following terms as they relate to a method. 

return value - the final value that is returned when the control exits the method

side effect - Any operation that makes changes to the final value 

parameter - parameter is the declaration part 
argument - is written during method call 
implicit return - In ruby, the program automatically returns the last statement.

8. What are global scope and method scope? How do those scopes impact the availability of data at different points in a program?

When a variable is set under the global scope it is available at any part of the program. When a variable is under method scope it can be accessed only inside the method in which it is defined.

9. What is control flow? Why might a programmer choose to use flow control?

Conditional statements can be used to control the flow of the program. This is used to change the direction when there is a necessity or the choice given by the user requires running a different part of the program.

10. Define the following terms as they relate to flow control.

loop - any statement that is used to make repetitive executions

if - runs the statement if the condition is true 
else - runs the statement if condition of 'if' is false 
elsif - this condition is used to set further rules similar to an 'if' statements
while - runs statement until the condition is false
until - runs statement until the condition is true



